Real-time static obstacle detection for drones

Drones are an emerging technology that has numerous applications in the real world. An unmanned aerial vehicle performs critical operations in places where humans cannot reach by themselves, such as chemical leaks, fire outbreaks, radioactive leaks, etc. UAVs can also be used for surveillance and military purposes.
Obstacle detection plays a very prominent role in the autonomous navigation of UAVs. Real-time obstacle detection can be done with low-cost RGB and depth cameras. The images and videos which are obtained from cameras mounted on UAVs can be analyzed using the occupied grid algorithm to divide the frame into grids and analyze if the grid is occupied or not. The algorithm uses bounding box-based convolutional neural networks. A flight trajectory, velocity, and direction of a UAV are presented as a performance matrix.

The use of passive sensors like RGB cameras and Depth cameras requires a lot of computational power and image processing. With the usage of light-dependent passive sensors, the UAVs cannot move during nighttime. So I propose the use of 3-D LIDAR for obstacle detection and path planning. Compared to all the other sensors available LIDAR seems to be most appropriate because of its small size, low weather dependency, low light sensitivity, and low requirement of computational power. 
It is possible to plan an instant path in an unknown environment using the potential-based method for obstacle avoidance. The potential method has a major drawback, which is, that if there exists a local minimum, the UAV will stop moving. This drawback can be overcome by switching to geometry-based obstacle avoidance by forming a trajectory over the obstacle. 
When LIDAR is used, transparent obstacles through which the light can pass, cannot be detected. So ultrasonic sensors have to be used for the detection of transparent and close-range obstacles.
The inertial navigation system can be used to determine the real-time position of the UAV. 

The obstacles can be static or dynamic. By using the potential-based method, we can counter not only static obstacles but also dynamic obstacles. Obstacles and other drones are considered to repel each other and the drone is considered to be attracted to the final destination, and the drone is drawn to the desired location as a result. By using this method, the drone can plan its path in real-time even in an unfamiliar dynamic environment.
When local minima are attained, the UAV should switch to the geometric method and hover over the obstacles which are detected either using passive sensors like RGB and depth sensors or active sensors like LIDAR and Ultrasonic sensors. The dynamic obstacle includes birds, which can be detected using thermal sensors if required.
Even though active sensors like LIDAR use more power compared to passive sensors, obstacle detection is more efficient when active sensors are being employed. This reduces the computational power required and an efficient path planning algorithm can be used to implement obstacle avoidance.
On switching to geometry-based obstacle avoidance, upon detection of obstacles, the obstacles with the highest risk are first selected. Then, a boundary sphere is generated for each obstacle to define the safe and risky areas. Tangent lines from the UAV to the sphere, together with information on the direction of the UAV’s movement, are used to calculate a collision detection angle to determine the most appropriate direction of deviation to avoid the possible collision.

While local path planning or sense and avoid will help reduce the computational power needed to reach the goal, global path planning will help reach the goal on the shortest path as well as avoid collisions.

So, the hybrid approach of the potential-based method and geometry-based method using LIDAR and ultrasonic sensors with global path planning will be one of the efficient ways to approach the problem of obstacle detection in drones.

